---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - First Encounter
---
# Thoughts on "Open Source"
When I hear the term "open source," I heave a sigh of relief. There are so many new developments in tech, especially in AI, that is blocked by a paywall. Every once in a while, if these big tech companies want to recognize my student status, I can scrape by with the $200 lifetime credits to use an EC2 instance or a million or so Azure OpenAI GPT tokens. Open source projects allow me to explore technology I want to just simply explore.  
  
Furthermore, open source projects are usually well-maintained and constantly improving. Since there are typically a ton of people on open source projects, open source projects tend to perform better than closed source projects. Over this summer, I was exploring speech-to-text models and found that OpenAI's Whisper performed much better than Google's Chirp and AssemblyAI's models. On the other hand, the benefit of closed source projects is most likely competitivity. If you have an impressive piece of technology that can be sold, then you shouldn't tell other people about it; just keep it a secret and sell it for a lot of money. The other facet of keeping technology a secret is government grade technology. For example, some governments kept cryptosystems secret for the sake of keeping the system a secret. Although cybersecurity experts would probably disagree with keeping the system a secret now, it seems like the most valid reason to have a closed source project.
# Inspiring Projects
## Remix IDE
The project I chose for the Wiki and one of my favorite projects is the Remix IDE. Remix gives you a test environment to compile and execute Solidity smart contracts. The IDE makes it super easy to just click buttons and execute contracts instead of having to execute on a blockchain and pay gas fees. 
## Programming Languages
A couple of programming languages I use are Python and Solidity and these are open source programming languages. I didn't realize these were "open source" but looking into their repositories showed me a little bit about what goes on behind the scenes.
## Flask
For website building, I almost always turn to Flask. Flask is super easy to use and relatively self explanatory. I've never had to use a functionality outside of what Flask has to offer. It was so convenient to the point I used it to deploy a web app this summer.
## More
I'm not sure if Open API's count as open source, but I've been interested in web scraping lately so public facing API's are really helpful. If this doesn't count, I mentioned Whisper earlier. I gave it a bunch of pretty bad audio quality audio files this summer and it spit out some really good stuff. I'm really happy that AI has become a big thing because you can just do so much with it.